Add initial content proposal for lesson8 (#22)
ReDI-School/nrw-html-and-css-2021-spring: lesson8/index.md

---
title: Lesson 8 - Introduction to CSS
nav_order: 8
---

# Introduction to CSS

## Class Agenda

1. Recap of CSS Intro (from [lesson 2](https://redi-school.github.io/nrw-html-and-css-2021-spring/lesson2/#2-introduction-to-css))
2. CSS Syntax
3. CSS Selectors I
4. How to add CSS to HTML

## 1. Recap of CSS Intro from Lesson 2?

- What is CSS?
- What does Style Sheet in CSS stand for?

> - How does CSS rules and language looks like?

Author: ```suggestion
- How do the CSS rules and language looks like?
```

ETA: 10 mins

## 2. CSS Syntax

> - What does a CSS rule consists of?

Author: ```suggestion
- What does a CSS rule consist of?
```

- How do you construct a declaration block for a CSS rule?

ETA: 10 mins

## 3. CSS Selectors I

> - What are the categorization of the different selector groups?

Author: ```suggestion
- How can we categorize the different selector groups?
```

> - What are CSS Simple Selectors?

Author: ```suggestion
- What are the CSS Simple Selectors?
```

- How do we use the CSS element selector?
- How do we use the CSS id selector?
- How do we use the CSS class selector?
- How do we use the CSS universal selector?
- How do we use the CSS grouping selector?

ETA: 40 mins

## 4. How to add CSS to HTML

- What are the different ways to add css to HTML?

> - What is the CSS cascading and specifity order?

Author: ```suggestion
- What is the CSS cascading and specificity order?
```

- What happens if two identical CSS rules (with different values) are applied to same element?

ETA: 30 mins

> # Exercise Description 

Author: I have a question regarding the flow of the lecture. Do you plan to have a clear separation between theory and practice? 

And another question. Would it be also possible to  experiment with the other ways to add CSS to html. I mean inline styling and the `<style>` tag. So that in the end students can do `external`, `internal` and `inline` css

Author: _Update to my second question_: I see that the `internal` and `inline` css is planned for homework which makes sense

Reviewer: I haven't prepared my slides yet but I plan to teach the theory and then do hands-on with the students where possible.

- Create an external CSS file
- Link it to your HTML file
- Use the element CSS simple selector to make the background color of your portfolio website grey as shown [here](./grey-background.png)

ETA: 20 mins

# Glossary & Terminology

- CSS cascade - CSS cascade is an algorithm that defines how to combine property values originating from different sources.

> - CSS specifity - CSS Specificity is the means by which browsers decide which CSS property values are the most relevant to an element and, therefore, will be applied

Author: ```suggestion
- CSS specificity - CSS Specificity is the means by which browsers decide which CSS property values are the most relevant to an element and, therefore, will be applied
```

## Class Agenda

Content Proposal for lesson 8 (Intro to CSS) - (although not part of this PR)
We can follow the [W3Schools CSS Tutorial](https://www.w3schools.com/css/default.asp) which I find good enough

1. Recap of CSS Intro (from [lesson 2](https://redi-school.github.io/nrw-html-and-css-2021-spring/lesson2/#2-introduction-to-css)) -> ETA: 10mins
2. CSS Syntax -> ETA 10-15min

> 3. CSS Selectors I -> ETA 40 min

Reviewer 2: - The CSS Grouping Selector
- The CSS Universal Selector
- The CSS class Selector
- The CSS id Selector
- The CSS element Selector

- Categorization of the different selector groups as per W3S
- Teaching Students the simple CSS Selector group (first of the five) as shown [here](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css_selectors.asp) . That includes (element, class, id, universal and grouping selectors)

> > My idea is that in some other lesson down the course we have a section called `CSS Selectors ||` which covers advanced CSS Selectors (the rest 4 out of 5 groups) 4. How to add CSS to HTML -> ETA 40 mins

Reviewer: Do we do this for lesson 9: `CSS selectors II`?

> > My idea is that in some other lesson down the course we have a section called `CSS Selectors ||` which covers advanced CSS Selectors (the rest 4 out of 5 groups) 4. How to add CSS to HTML -> ETA 40 mins

Author: ```suggestion
> My idea is that in some other lesson down the course we have a section called `CSS Selectors ||` which covers advanced CSS Selectors (the rest 4 out of 5 groups) 

4. How to add CSS to HTML -> ETA 40 mins
```
